# Predicts-Oxygen-intake-rates-a-measure-of-aerobic-fitness
Seeking to build a model that predicts Oxygen intake rates (a measure of aerobic fitness) on the basis of a series of easily obtained measurements. The data is from Rawlings (1998) Applied Regression Analysis: A Research Tool 2nd Edition, and contains the following:  Age - Age in years Weight - Weight in kg Oxygen - Oxygen intake rate, ml per kg body weight per minute RunTime - time to run 1.5 miles in minutes RestPulse - heart rate while resting RunPulse - heart rate at end of run MaxPulse - maximum heart rate recorded while running

A dataset has been collected from 31 one individuals measuring their properties after running 1.5 miles. We are trying to find variables which might correlate with Oxygen intake. A total of 31 observations from a physical fitness program were evaluated with applied statistical methods including various normality tests and simple linear regression models. The linear regression model intends to firstly describe the relationship of Oxygen intake and other variables to create a prediction model based on significant variables. Model selection methods included using the backward and forward selection using Adjusted R squared values to determine the best model. Cross validation was used to select the final model. The variables in the final model were subjected to bootstrapping to determine confidence intervals for each parameter. The final model included relationships with Oxygen intake and Age, weight, run time, run pulse and max pulse. How much the rest pulse influenced the oxygen intake was not found to be significant. All these findings are highly limited in its application because of the limited sampled population, as it is very small, and includes data only for single, live, male individuals. Further research in this topic could deepen our understanding of these connection but would fail to help in assessing how variables can affect oxygen intakes while there is no factored variable in this dataset as well. Nonetheless, the findings in this report allow to point research into an adequate direction.
